README.md, before:

# Mint Node - Apigee Monetization tool

This tool allows you to interact with Apigee Monetization settings and entities through commands, automated scripts and YML config files.


* [Install & Prepare](#installandprepare)
* [Prerequisites](#prereqs)
* [About](#about)
* [Common Parameters](#common-params)
* **[What can I do with it?](#whatcanido)**
* [Commands](#commands)
* [Konwn Issues](#known-issues)


# Latest Updates 🎉

### 2020-01-06
* The config directory has been restructured to allow for further templating, putting the default kickstart config into `/configs/kickstart/default`
* Additional Kickstart template - you can now create a boilerplate for a custom attribute, i.e. credit-based rate plan. Go to [/configs/kickstart](https://github.com/mikesson/apigee-mint-node/tree/master/configs/kickstart) to read more


# <a name="installandprepare"></a> Install & Prepare

## Install with NPM

```
npm i apigee-mint -g
```

*NOTE: The `-g` option places the apigee-mint command in your PATH. On "\*nix"-based machines, `sudo` may be required with the `-g` option. If you do not use `-g`, then you need to add the apigee-mint command to your PATH manually.*


## Run from repository

1. `cd` to your local target directory and clone the GitHub repo:
```
git clone git@github.com:mikesson/apigee-mint-node.git
```

2. Change directory
```
cd apigee-mint-node
```

3. Install packages
```
npm install
```

4. Run command with:
```
./bin/mint.js <commands> <args>
```

# <a name="prereqs"></a> Prerequisites

- Apigee Edge account
- User credentials with the `Organization Administrator` role.
- Monetization enabled on your Apigee organization ([How do I enable it?](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/monetization/enabling-monetization-organization))
- Familiarity with the basic features and concepts of Apigee such as API Proxies, API Products and environments

For more information about Apigee, refer to the [Apigee Docs](http://docs.apigee.com).

# <a name="about"></a> About

This tool uses Apigee's Monetization module. If you want to learn more about it, read about our [API monetization concepts](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/monetization/basics-monetization) within Apigee. 

This high-level diagram shows the entities involved when using Apigee with Monetization:

![apigee-entities-with-monetization](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mikesson/apigee-mint-node/master/img/apigee-entities-with-monetization.png)


# <a name="common-params"></a> Common Parameters

The parameters below are used across all operations. For more specific parameters, please refer to the commands list below.

|Parameter      | Description   | Env. Variable | Required? | Default |
|---------------| --------------| --------------|------------| ----------|
| `--username -u` | Your Apigee account username | `APIGEE_USERNAME` | Yes | / |
| `--password -p` | Your Apigee account password | `APIGEE_PASSWORD` | Yes | / |
| `--organization -o` | The name of the organization to operate on| `APIGEE_ORGANIZATION` | Yes | / |
| `--logLevel -l` | Log level, defaults to `info` if not specified | `LOG_LEVEL` | Optional | `info` |

 It is a best practice to store these parameters in environment variables, such as:

 ```
export APIGEE_USERNAME="user@domain.com"
export APIGEE_PASSWORD="pwd"
export APIGEE_ORGANIZATION="org-name"
export LOG_LEVEL="debug"
 ```

The following log levels are available:
`debug`, `info`, `warning`, `error`, `off`

Recommendation is to keep log level at `debug` when facing issues, `info` when using the tool ad-hoc and `error` when integrated into other systems.


# <a name="whatcanido"></a> What can I do with it?

Jump to the details from this table:

|Scenario      | 
|---------------|
| [end-to-end setup: configuring a monetized API with subscribed application and an account balance](#cmd-kickstart) |
| [adding prepaid balance to a developer account](#addprepaidbalance) |
| [issuing credit to a developer](#issuecredit) |
| [get details of a rate plan](#tableGet) |
| [find active API product bundles by developer ID](#tableFind) |
| [find accepted rate plans by developer ID](#tableFind) |


# <a name="commands"></a> Commands

This section describes all available commands with examples and syntax.

* [`kickstart`](#cmd-kickstart)
* [`do`](#cmd-do)
* [`cleanup`](#cmd-cleanup)
* [`wheresMyConfig`](#cmd-wheresMyConfig)

## <a name="cmd-kickstart"></a> kickstart

Deploys a chain of entities for a ready-to-use sample configuration. This command makes use of a config directory where all YML files reside.
Familiarize yourself with the Apigee Monetization concepts and entities before customizing the config files.

*Recommendation:* Keep the versioning tags in the entity names & IDs to increment in case of a failed execution.

### Examples

Executes kickstart configuration for specified organization and environment, considering existing settings ([What does that mean?](#Parameters))

```apigee-mint kickstart -u user@domain.com -o my-nonprod -e test -l info -c true```

Executes kickstart configuration for specified organization and environment, overwriting/ignoring existing settings 

```apigee-mint kickstart -u user@domain.com -o my-nonprod -e test -l info -c false```


### Parameters

**```--environment -e```**

(required, the name of the target environment)

Specify the environment name for the setup, e.g. dev/test/prod

**```--directory -d```**

(optional, the directory where the config files reside, default: `config`)

**Note:** If it starts with a `/`, it is considered an absolute path, otherwise relative.

You can also store this in an environment variable:

```
export DIR_CONFIG="config-myorg"
```


**```--considerExistingSettings -c```**

(optional, `true/false`, default: `true`)

As the kickstart command modifies a range of settings from the _organization profile_ over to _currencies_ and _T&Cs_, you can choose to (a) overwrite all settings or (b) keep them and add the proxy, product and bundle to your existing configuration.

Choose `false` if you run this command on a clean/empty environment, choose `true` if you have already run this command before or if you would like to keep your existing org settings. **Please be aware** that config file changes might be necessary in order for the kickstart setup to work (e.g. clash of supported currencies and necessary changes to the organization profile).

In more detail, the `-c false` flag executes two additional steps:
1. Checks whether the currency specified in `1-orgProfile.yml` is already available. If `true`, no new currency is being added
2. Checks whether there are existing T&Cs which have not expired yet. If `true`, no new T&Cs are added.



### Steps

Follow these steps to run the kickstart setup

1. Clone this repo to your local workspace

2. Create a copy of the config directory for your own setup, with e.g. the target org name as suffix

```
cp -r config config-{yourSuffix}
```

3. Set environment variables

```
export APIGEE_ORGANIZATION={orgName}
export APIGEE_USERNAME={username}
export APIGEE_PASSWORD={password}
export LOG_LEVEL=info
export DIR_CONFIG=config-{yourSuffix}
```

4. Prepare configuration files (Required)

- 4.1 Set start date of T&Cs (e.g. _today_ and _now + 1 hour_)

  `3-termsAndConditions.yml -> startDate`

- 4.2 Set start date of rate plan (e.g. _today_ 00:00:00)

  `8-ratePlan.yml -> startDate`

- 4.3 Set end date of rate plan (any date in the future)

  `8-ratePlan.yml -> endDate` 


5. Make sure you're in the repo's root directory

  `cd [where_you_cloned_this_repo]/apigee-mint-node`

5. Run the command

- `apigee-mint kickstart -e test -l info -c false`

**(Note that `-c false` indicates that default org values are being overwritten)**

For reference, this is how a successful kickstart execution looks like:

![successful kickstart execution](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mikesson/apigee-mint-node/master/img/successful-kickstart.png)


### Customizations

You can use tour copied config directory to adjust all setup settings. Here's a list of common customizations, referencing the target file name and attribute: 

#### Set new API Proxy name:

`4-apiProductMint.yml -> proxies[0]`

#### Set new API Product Name:

`4-apiProductMint.yml -> name`

`4-apiProductMint.yml -> displayName`

The API Product name also appears in the following files, so change the name there, too:

`7-productBundle.yml -> product.id`

`10-developerApp.yml -> apiProducts[0]`

#### Set new default currency for organization:

`1-orgProfile.yml -> currency`

`2-currency.yml -> name`

As you change the currency code, you might want to change the display name and description, too:

`2-currency.yml -> description`

`2-currency.yml -> displayName`

#### Set new developer name and email

`9-developer.yml -> email`

`9-developer.yml -> firstName`

`9-developer.yml -> lastName`

As you change the currency code, you might want to change the display name and description, too:

`2-currency.yml -> description`

`2-currency.yml -> displayName`



### Configuration Reference

This section lists all available config files and a link to the full [Apigee Docs](https://docs.apigee.com) page

|File      | Description   |
|---------------| --------------|
| `1-orgProfile.yml` | [Docs Link](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/monetization/edit-organization-profile#api) |
| `2-currency.yml` | [Docs Link](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/monetization/manage-supported-currencies#api) |
| `3-termsAndConditions.yml` | [Docs Link](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/monetization/specify-terms-and-conditions#api) |
| `4-apiProductMint.yml` | [Docs Link]() |
| `5-transactionRecordingPaths.yml` | [Docs Link](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/monetization/create-transaction-recording-policy#createtrpapi) |
| `6-transactionRecordingPolicy.yml` | [Docs Link](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/monetization/create-transaction-recording-policy#createtrpapi) |
| `7-productBundle.yml` | [Docs Link](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/monetization/api-product-bundles#api) |
| `8-ratePlan.yml` | [Docs Link](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/monetization/create-rate-plans#api) |
| `9-developer.yml` | [Docs Link](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/publish/adding-developers-your-api-product#monetization-attributes) |
| `10-developerApp.yml` | [Docs Link](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/publish/using-edge-management-api-publish-apis#registeringdeveloperapps) |
| `11-purchaseRatePlan.yml` | [Docs Link](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/monetization/subscribe-published-rate-plan-using-api) |
| `12-reloadAccountBalance.yml` | [Docs Link](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/monetization/manage-prepaid-balances#getbalancesapi) |


#### Transaction Recording Policy Details

The API Product YML config has been split for more flexibility with Transaction Recording Policies. The dependencies are as follows:

![transaction-recording-policy-config](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mikesson/apigee-mint-node/master/img/transaction-recording-policy-config.png)



## <a name="cmd-do"></a> do

Perform common CRUD operations, view data points and find Monetization resources.


### Parameters

***```--action -a```***

(required, `list/delete/...`, default: `N/A`)

The action you want to perform.

***```--resource -r```***

(required, `apiproxy/apiproduct/...`, default: `N/A`)

The resource type you want to perform the action on.

***```--id -i```***

(required, `<identifier>`, default: `N/A`)

The resource or search identifier. For some commands, multiple of those input parameters are required (order matters). 


 
### Available actions

#### Summary

The table below lists available actions and required parameters for each.

|Action                 | Parameter 1       | Parameter 2 | Parameter 3 | Parameter 4 | Parameter 5 | Parameter 6 |
|-----------------------| ------------------|---------------| --------------|---------------| --------------|---------------| 
| `list`                | `-r resourceType` |  `/` |  `/` |
| `get`                 | `-r resourceType` |  `-i resourceID` |  `/` |
| `delete`              | `-r resourceType` | `-i resourceID` | `/` |
| `find`                | `-r searchTag`    | `-i resourceID` | `/` |
| `addPrepaidBalance`   | `-i developerId`  | `-i amount` | `-i currencyCode` |
| `issueCredit`         | `-i packageId`    | `-i ratePlanId` | `-i developerId` | `-i currencyId` | `-i creditAmount` | `-i creditDescription` |

#### Available resources per action

##### get

| Available Resource        |  Description   | Example |
|---------------------------| --------------|---------------|
| `developerRatePlan`       | details of a developer's rate plan | `do -a get -r developerRatePlan -i <developerID> -i <ratePlanID>` |

#### <a name="tableGet"></a> list

| Available Resource        |  Description   | Example |
|---------------------------| --------------|---------------|
| `apiproxy`                | list of API proxies per org | `do -a list -r apiproxy` |
| `productbundle`           | list of API product bundles per org | `do -a list -r productbundle` |
| `rateplan`                | list of rate plans per org | `do -a list -r rateplan` |

#### <a name="tableFind"></a> find

| Available Search Tag      |  Description   | Example |
|---------------------------| --------------|---------------|
| `apps-byDevEmail` | finds apps by developer email | `do -a find -i apps-byDevEmail` |
| `apps-byDevId`  | finds apps by developer ID | `do -a find -i apps-byDevId` |
| `apiProductBundles-byDevId-activeOnly` | finds **active only** API product bundles by developer ID | `do -a find -i apiProductBundles-byDevId-activeOnly -i <id>` |
| `apiProductBundles-byDevId-includeExpired`| finds all API product bundles by developer ID | `do -a find -i apiProductBundles-byDevId-includeExpired -i <id>` |
| `acceptedRatePlan-byDevId` | finds accepted rate plans by developer ID | `do -a find -i acceptedRatePlan-byDevId -i <developerId>` |


#### delete

| Available Resource        |  Description   | Example |
|---------------------------| --------------|---------------|
| `apiproxy`                | deletes an API proxy | `do -a delete -r apiproxy -i <id>` |
| `productbundle`           | deletes an API product bundles | `do -a delete -r productbundle -i <id>` |
| `rateplan`                | deletes a rate plan | `do -a delete -r rateplan -i <id>` |



### <a name="addprepaidbalance"></a> Add prepaid balance to a developer account 

Example:
```
apigee-mint do -a addPrepaidBalance -i fdd76-2578f-df9f-1ca23f -i 100 -i gbp -l debug
```


### <a name="issuecredit"></a> Issue credit to a developer

Example:
```
apigee-mint do -a issueCredit -i product-bundle-1 -i product-bundle-1-rateplan-1 -i fdd76-2578f-df9f-1ca23f -i gbp -i 100 -i 'sample refund'
```


## <a name="cmd-cleanup"></a> cleanup *[experimental]*

This command cleans up an organization's Monetization data.
This is currently an experimental feature as some enties might need manual removal.

Example:
```
apigee-mint cleanup -l info
```

You can read more about deleting Monetization data [on Apigee docs here](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/monetization/delete-monetization-data-organization)



## <a name="cmd-wheresMyConfig"></a> wheresMyConfig
 
This command helps you verify the currently selected target directory for the configuration files. Use this command if you're unsure about where the `kickstart` command will pick up the YML files.

Example:
```
apigee-mint wheresMyConfig
```

# <a name="known-issues"></a> Known Issues


## Error when adding developer balance
```
error: ✖ Error when adding developer balance, find more details below:
error: HTTP 400 | {"code":"mint.invalidTransaction","message":"Invalid transaction: Datastore Error","contexts":[],"cause":{"message":"Invalid transaction: Datastore Error","contexts":[]}}
```
Retry the operation if the above error message appears


## apigee-mint not executable
```
apigee-mint: command not found
```
To resolve this, make sure the npm /bin or /apigee-mint directory is in your $PATH variable.

1. Check the npm prefix with `npm get prefix`
2. Check if the above prefix is part of the PATH variable with `echo $PATH`
2. If not, add it as follows:
- `sudo nano /etc/paths` - enter your password when prompted
- go to the bottom of the file and enter the path from `npm get prefix` + `/bin`, e.g. /Users/user123/.npm-global/bin
- Hit CONTROL + X to quit, enter Y to save and ENTER to save to existing file
- To test it, enter `echo $PATH` in a **new** terminal window. You should see the added path now

Also, if you don't want to use npm, you can alawys clone the GitHub repo and run all commands with `./bin/mint.js <command>` from the repo's root directory

#

This is not an officially supported Google product

Commit message:

Adding support for token based auth

README.md, after:

# Mint Node - Apigee Monetization tool

This tool allows you to interact with Apigee Monetization settings and entities through commands, automated scripts and YML config files.


* [Install & Prepare](#installandprepare)
* [Prerequisites](#prereqs)
* [About](#about)
* [Common Parameters](#common-params)
* **[What can I do with it?](#whatcanido)**
* [Commands](#commands)
* [Konwn Issues](#known-issues)


# Latest Updates 🎉

### 2020-01-06
* The config directory has been restructured to allow for further templating, putting the default kickstart config into `/configs/kickstart/default`
* Additional Kickstart template - you can now create a boilerplate for a custom attribute, i.e. credit-based rate plan. Go to [/configs/kickstart](https://github.com/mikesson/apigee-mint-node/tree/master/configs/kickstart) to read more


# <a name="installandprepare"></a> Install & Prepare

## Install with NPM

```
npm i apigee-mint -g
```

*NOTE: The `-g` option places the apigee-mint command in your PATH. On "\*nix"-based machines, `sudo` may be required with the `-g` option. If you do not use `-g`, then you need to add the apigee-mint command to your PATH manually.*


## Run from repository

1. `cd` to your local target directory and clone the GitHub repo:
```
git clone git@github.com:mikesson/apigee-mint-node.git
```

2. Change directory
```
cd apigee-mint-node
```

3. Install packages
```
npm install
```

4. Run command with:
```
./bin/mint.js <commands> <args>
```

# <a name="prereqs"></a> Prerequisites

- Apigee Edge account
- User credentials with the `Organization Administrator` role.
- Monetization enabled on your Apigee organization ([How do I enable it?](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/monetization/enabling-monetization-organization))
- Familiarity with the basic features and concepts of Apigee such as API Proxies, API Products and environments

For more information about Apigee, refer to the [Apigee Docs](http://docs.apigee.com).

# <a name="about"></a> About

This tool uses Apigee's Monetization module. If you want to learn more about it, read about our [API monetization concepts](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/monetization/basics-monetization) within Apigee.

This high-level diagram shows the entities involved when using Apigee with Monetization:

![apigee-entities-with-monetization](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mikesson/apigee-mint-node/master/img/apigee-entities-with-monetization.png)


# <a name="common-params"></a> Common Parameters

The parameters below are used across all operations. For more specific parameters, please refer to the commands list below.

|Parameter      | Description   | Env. Variable | Required? | Default |
|---------------| --------------| --------------|------------| ----------|
| `--username -u` | Your Apigee account username | `APIGEE_USERNAME` | Yes | / |
| `--password -p` | Your Apigee account password | `APIGEE_PASSWORD` | Yes | / |
| `--token -t` | Your Apigee access token | `APIGEE_TOKEN` | Optional (use instead of -u & -p) | / |
| `--organization -o` | The name of the organization to operate on| `APIGEE_ORGANIZATION` | Yes | / |
| `--logLevel -l` | Log level, defaults to `info` if not specified | `LOG_LEVEL` | Optional | `info` |

 It is a best practice to store these parameters in environment variables, such as:

 ```
export APIGEE_USERNAME="user@domain.com"
export APIGEE_PASSWORD="pwd"
export APIGEE_ORGANIZATION="org-name"
export LOG_LEVEL="debug"
 ```

The following log levels are available:
`debug`, `info`, `warning`, `error`, `off`

Recommendation is to keep log level at `debug` when facing issues, `info` when using the tool ad-hoc and `error` when integrated into other systems.


# <a name="whatcanido"></a> What can I do with it?

Jump to the details from this table:

|Scenario      |
|---------------|
| [end-to-end setup: configuring a monetized API with subscribed application and an account balance](#cmd-kickstart) |
| [adding prepaid balance to a developer account](#addprepaidbalance) |
| [issuing credit to a developer](#issuecredit) |
| [get details of a rate plan](#tableGet) |
| [find active API product bundles by developer ID](#tableFind) |
| [find accepted rate plans by developer ID](#tableFind) |


# <a name="commands"></a> Commands

This section describes all available commands with examples and syntax.

* [`kickstart`](#cmd-kickstart)
* [`do`](#cmd-do)
* [`cleanup`](#cmd-cleanup)
* [`wheresMyConfig`](#cmd-wheresMyConfig)

## <a name="cmd-kickstart"></a> kickstart

Deploys a chain of entities for a ready-to-use sample configuration. This command makes use of a config directory where all YML files reside.
Familiarize yourself with the Apigee Monetization concepts and entities before customizing the config files.

*Recommendation:* Keep the versioning tags in the entity names & IDs to increment in case of a failed execution.

### Examples

Executes kickstart configuration for specified organization and environment, considering existing settings ([What does that mean?](#Parameters))

```apigee-mint kickstart -u user@domain.com -o my-nonprod -e test -l info -c true```

Executes kickstart configuration for specified organization and environment, overwriting/ignoring existing settings

```apigee-mint kickstart -u user@domain.com -o my-nonprod -e test -l info -c false```


### Parameters

**```--environment -e```**

(required, the name of the target environment)

Specify the environment name for the setup, e.g. dev/test/prod

**```--directory -d```**

(optional, the directory where the config files reside, default: `config`)

**Note:** If it starts with a `/`, it is considered an absolute path, otherwise relative.

You can also store this in an environment variable:

```
export DIR_CONFIG="config-myorg"
```


**```--considerExistingSettings -c```**

(optional, `true/false`, default: `true`)

As the kickstart command modifies a range of settings from the _organization profile_ over to _currencies_ and _T&Cs_, you can choose to (a) overwrite all settings or (b) keep them and add the proxy, product and bundle to your existing configuration.

Choose `false` if you run this command on a clean/empty environment, choose `true` if you have already run this command before or if you would like to keep your existing org settings. **Please be aware** that config file changes might be necessary in order for the kickstart setup to work (e.g. clash of supported currencies and necessary changes to the organization profile).

In more detail, the `-c false` flag executes two additional steps:
1. Checks whether the currency specified in `1-orgProfile.yml` is already available. If `true`, no new currency is being added
2. Checks whether there are existing T&Cs which have not expired yet. If `true`, no new T&Cs are added.



### Steps

Follow these steps to run the kickstart setup

1. Clone this repo to your local workspace

2. Create a copy of the config directory for your own setup, with e.g. the target org name as suffix

```
cp -r config config-{yourSuffix}
```

3. Set environment variables

```
export APIGEE_ORGANIZATION={orgName}
export APIGEE_USERNAME={username}
export APIGEE_PASSWORD={password}
export LOG_LEVEL=info
export DIR_CONFIG=config-{yourSuffix}
```

4. Prepare configuration files (Required)

- 4.1 Set start date of T&Cs (e.g. _today_ and _now + 1 hour_)

  `3-termsAndConditions.yml -> startDate`

- 4.2 Set start date of rate plan (e.g. _today_ 00:00:00)

  `8-ratePlan.yml -> startDate`

- 4.3 Set end date of rate plan (any date in the future)

  `8-ratePlan.yml -> endDate`


5. Make sure you're in the repo's root directory

  `cd [where_you_cloned_this_repo]/apigee-mint-node`

5. Run the command

- `apigee-mint kickstart -e test -l info -c false`

**(Note that `-c false` indicates that default org values are being overwritten)**

For reference, this is how a successful kickstart execution looks like:

![successful kickstart execution](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mikesson/apigee-mint-node/master/img/successful-kickstart.png)


### Customizations

You can use tour copied config directory to adjust all setup settings. Here's a list of common customizations, referencing the target file name and attribute:

#### Set new API Proxy name:

`4-apiProductMint.yml -> proxies[0]`

#### Set new API Product Name:

`4-apiProductMint.yml -> name`

`4-apiProductMint.yml -> displayName`

The API Product name also appears in the following files, so change the name there, too:

`7-productBundle.yml -> product.id`

`10-developerApp.yml -> apiProducts[0]`

#### Set new default currency for organization:

`1-orgProfile.yml -> currency`

`2-currency.yml -> name`

As you change the currency code, you might want to change the display name and description, too:

`2-currency.yml -> description`

`2-currency.yml -> displayName`

#### Set new developer name and email

`9-developer.yml -> email`

`9-developer.yml -> firstName`

`9-developer.yml -> lastName`

As you change the currency code, you might want to change the display name and description, too:

`2-currency.yml -> description`

`2-currency.yml -> displayName`



### Configuration Reference

This section lists all available config files and a link to the full [Apigee Docs](https://docs.apigee.com) page

|File      | Description   |
|---------------| --------------|
| `1-orgProfile.yml` | [Docs Link](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/monetization/edit-organization-profile#api) |
| `2-currency.yml` | [Docs Link](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/monetization/manage-supported-currencies#api) |
| `3-termsAndConditions.yml` | [Docs Link](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/monetization/specify-terms-and-conditions#api) |
| `4-apiProductMint.yml` | [Docs Link]() |
| `5-transactionRecordingPaths.yml` | [Docs Link](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/monetization/create-transaction-recording-policy#createtrpapi) |
| `6-transactionRecordingPolicy.yml` | [Docs Link](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/monetization/create-transaction-recording-policy#createtrpapi) |
| `7-productBundle.yml` | [Docs Link](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/monetization/api-product-bundles#api) |
| `8-ratePlan.yml` | [Docs Link](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/monetization/create-rate-plans#api) |
| `9-developer.yml` | [Docs Link](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/publish/adding-developers-your-api-product#monetization-attributes) |
| `10-developerApp.yml` | [Docs Link](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/publish/using-edge-management-api-publish-apis#registeringdeveloperapps) |
| `11-purchaseRatePlan.yml` | [Docs Link](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/monetization/subscribe-published-rate-plan-using-api) |
| `12-reloadAccountBalance.yml` | [Docs Link](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/monetization/manage-prepaid-balances#getbalancesapi) |


#### Transaction Recording Policy Details

The API Product YML config has been split for more flexibility with Transaction Recording Policies. The dependencies are as follows:

![transaction-recording-policy-config](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mikesson/apigee-mint-node/master/img/transaction-recording-policy-config.png)



## <a name="cmd-do"></a> do

Perform common CRUD operations, view data points and find Monetization resources.


### Parameters

***```--action -a```***

(required, `list/delete/...`, default: `N/A`)

The action you want to perform.

***```--resource -r```***

(required, `apiproxy/apiproduct/...`, default: `N/A`)

The resource type you want to perform the action on.

***```--id -i```***

(required, `<identifier>`, default: `N/A`)

The resource or search identifier. For some commands, multiple of those input parameters are required (order matters).



### Available actions

#### Summary

The table below lists available actions and required parameters for each.

|Action                 | Parameter 1       | Parameter 2 | Parameter 3 | Parameter 4 | Parameter 5 | Parameter 6 |
|-----------------------| ------------------|---------------| --------------|---------------| --------------|---------------|
| `list`                | `-r resourceType` |  `/` |  `/` |
| `get`                 | `-r resourceType` |  `-i resourceID` |  `/` |
| `delete`              | `-r resourceType` | `-i resourceID` | `/` |
| `find`                | `-r searchTag`    | `-i resourceID` | `/` |
| `addPrepaidBalance`   | `-i developerId`  | `-i amount` | `-i currencyCode` |
| `issueCredit`         | `-i packageId`    | `-i ratePlanId` | `-i developerId` | `-i currencyId` | `-i creditAmount` | `-i creditDescription` |

#### Available resources per action

##### get

| Available Resource        |  Description   | Example |
|---------------------------| --------------|---------------|
| `developerRatePlan`       | details of a developer's rate plan | `do -a get -r developerRatePlan -i <developerID> -i <ratePlanID>` |

#### <a name="tableGet"></a> list

| Available Resource        |  Description   | Example |
|---------------------------| --------------|---------------|
| `apiproxy`                | list of API proxies per org | `do -a list -r apiproxy` |
| `productbundle`           | list of API product bundles per org | `do -a list -r productbundle` |
| `rateplan`                | list of rate plans per org | `do -a list -r rateplan` |

#### <a name="tableFind"></a> find

| Available Search Tag      |  Description   | Example |
|---------------------------| --------------|---------------|
| `apps-byDevEmail` | finds apps by developer email | `do -a find -i apps-byDevEmail` |
| `apps-byDevId`  | finds apps by developer ID | `do -a find -i apps-byDevId` |
| `apiProductBundles-byDevId-activeOnly` | finds **active only** API product bundles by developer ID | `do -a find -i apiProductBundles-byDevId-activeOnly -i <id>` |
| `apiProductBundles-byDevId-includeExpired`| finds all API product bundles by developer ID | `do -a find -i apiProductBundles-byDevId-includeExpired -i <id>` |
| `acceptedRatePlan-byDevId` | finds accepted rate plans by developer ID | `do -a find -i acceptedRatePlan-byDevId -i <developerId>` |


#### delete

| Available Resource        |  Description   | Example |
|---------------------------| --------------|---------------|
| `apiproxy`                | deletes an API proxy | `do -a delete -r apiproxy -i <id>` |
| `productbundle`           | deletes an API product bundles | `do -a delete -r productbundle -i <id>` |
| `rateplan`                | deletes a rate plan | `do -a delete -r rateplan -i <id>` |



### <a name="addprepaidbalance"></a> Add prepaid balance to a developer account

Example:
```
apigee-mint do -a addPrepaidBalance -i fdd76-2578f-df9f-1ca23f -i 100 -i gbp -l debug
```


### <a name="issuecredit"></a> Issue credit to a developer

Example:
```
apigee-mint do -a issueCredit -i product-bundle-1 -i product-bundle-1-rateplan-1 -i fdd76-2578f-df9f-1ca23f -i gbp -i 100 -i 'sample refund'
```


## <a name="cmd-cleanup"></a> cleanup *[experimental]*

This command cleans up an organization's Monetization data.
This is currently an experimental feature as some enties might need manual removal.

Example:
```
apigee-mint cleanup -l info
```

You can read more about deleting Monetization data [on Apigee docs here](https://docs.apigee.com/api-platform/monetization/delete-monetization-data-organization)



## <a name="cmd-wheresMyConfig"></a> wheresMyConfig

This command helps you verify the currently selected target directory for the configuration files. Use this command if you're unsure about where the `kickstart` command will pick up the YML files.

Example:
```
apigee-mint wheresMyConfig
```

# <a name="known-issues"></a> Known Issues


## Error when adding developer balance
```
error: ✖ Error when adding developer balance, find more details below:
error: HTTP 400 | {"code":"mint.invalidTransaction","message":"Invalid transaction: Datastore Error","contexts":[],"cause":{"message":"Invalid transaction: Datastore Error","contexts":[]}}
```
Retry the operation if the above error message appears


## apigee-mint not executable
```
apigee-mint: command not found
```
To resolve this, make sure the npm /bin or /apigee-mint directory is in your $PATH variable.

1. Check the npm prefix with `npm get prefix`
2. Check if the above prefix is part of the PATH variable with `echo $PATH`
2. If not, add it as follows:
- `sudo nano /etc/paths` - enter your password when prompted
- go to the bottom of the file and enter the path from `npm get prefix` + `/bin`, e.g. /Users/user123/.npm-global/bin
- Hit CONTROL + X to quit, enter Y to save and ENTER to save to existing file
- To test it, enter `echo $PATH` in a **new** terminal window. You should see the added path now

Also, if you don't want to use npm, you can alawys clone the GitHub repo and run all commands with `./bin/mint.js <command>` from the repo's root directory

#

This is not an officially supported Google product
